# Canvas definition file (see sample\_canvases.cfg) #
This file contains definitions of the canvas; for example, when the user draws a 2D graph, the definition of that canvas will contains the mathematical expressions for the x-axis, y-axis, and the respective errors. This kind of file is created when the user choose "File -> Export canvases" from the main dialog, and its information can be imported when user choose "File -> Import canvases" from the main dialog.

An example file is shown below:
```
;-*-EVENT_BROWSER_CANVASES-*-
;************************************************ 
;This file is generated by browser and contains 
;definitions of canvases created during a program
;session. This file can be parsed later by the
;program.
;
;You can edit this file by hand; in which case, be
;aware of the syntax:
;each "canvas" is headed by a header of the format:
;[Canvas:_canvas type_]
;where canvas type corresponds to the enum defined
;in Canvas.h. The rest of the variables are defined
;in the format:
;name = value
;"name" conforms to the rules regarding the names
;of c-style variables.
;************************************************     

[Canvas:1]
Name = Shower Angles
EventCut = 
rAxis       = 90-ElL_ew
thetaAxis   = (360-AzL_ew+90)*3.14159/180
colorCodeBy = CCheight_EW

[Canvas:4]
Name = Polar: [ElL_ew] vs. [(360-AzL_ew+90)*3.14159/180]
EventCut = 
useErrors     = 0
rAxis         = ElL_ew
rAxis_err     = 0.001
thetaAxis     = (360-AzL_ew+90)*3.14159/180
thetaAxis_err = sqrt((CCheight_error_EW)^2+(0.4*CCheight_EW)^2)/log10(Nmu)
```

Notice that all comment line begins with the character ";", except the first line, which is not a comment but essential for the program to identify that this file contains canvases definitions. There are two canvases defined here. each "canvas" is headed by a header of the format:
```
[Canvas:_canvas type_]
```
where canvas type corresponds to the enum defined in [Canvas.h](http://code.google.com/p/lopes-eventbrowser/source/browse/trunk/Canvas.h). The rest of the variables are defined in the format:
```
name = value
```
"name" conforms to the rules regarding the names of c-style variables.


---


# Root branches configuration file (see branches.cfg) #

This file contains the definitions of the branches to be read from the root file. Each line in the file defines one branches, and is formated as:
```
T/branch_name
```
where T is the type of data, only support F=float and I=integer for now.

Any line that begins with COMMENT\_CHAR defined in [global.h](http://code.google.com/p/lopes-eventbrowser/source/browse/trunk/global.h), which is currently semicolon (;), is ignored when the file is parsed.

This file is not essential for the program; the program will automatically detect the existing branches in a root tree and use them if no branch configuration file is specified.


---


# columns.cfg #

This file is not essential for the program. It defines the columns to be displayed when the View Data dialog is invoked. Each line defines one column, and the syntax is
```
shown|expression_for_column1|alias_for_column1
```
where shown can be either 0, for hidden, or 1, for shown.

The hidden/shown is useful when one wants to temporarily view a subset of data. Expression is the expression used to evaluate the data.

Expression could be just the branch name or any reasonable mathematical expression involving the branch name, such as branch\_name1 + branch\_name2 / 2, but for any integer data type, attempts to evaluate (i.e. integer1 + 1) will fail because of the current limitation of the program.

Alias is just a name for the column, which could be useful for giving a meaningful name instead of a long mathematical expression to the column. Most characters should work here, but some characters are replaced by _(underscore) so that the alias will not create a problem when creating a new root file from the data set._

columns.cfg can be created either manually or from the save button in the
Choose Column dialog. When such a file exists, it would be read; if not, the
default (all branches from branches.txt) will be used.


---


# eventcuts.cfg #
This file contains the "saved" event cuts, created when the user clicked "Save Cut" button in the main dialog; each line corresponds to one cut.

One can edit this file as wished, and this file will be created automatically by the program if not existent.