#summary Describes the config/settings file used by the program.
#labels Phase-Design

=Root branches configuration file (see branches.cfg)=

This file contains the definitions of the branches to be read from the root file. Each line in the file defines one branches, and is formated as: 
{{{
T/branch_name
}}}
where T is the type of data, only support F=float and I=integer for now.

Any line that begins with COMMENT_CHAR defined in [http://code.google.com/p/lopes-eventbrowser/source/browse/global.h global.h], which is currently semicolon (;), is ignored when the file is parsed. 

This file is not essential for the program; the program will automatically detect the existing branches in a root tree and use them if no branch configuration file is specified.

=columns.cfg=

This file is not essential for the program. It defines the columns to be displayed when the View Data dialog is invoked. Each line defines one column, and the syntax is 
{{{
shown|expression_for_column1|alias_for_column1
}}}
where shown can be either 0, for hidden, or 1, for shown. 

The hidden/shown is useful when one wants to temporarily view a subset of data. Expression is the expression used to evaluate the data. 

Expression could be just the branch name or any reasonable mathematical expression involving the branch name, such as branch_name1 + branch_name2 / 2, but for any integer data type, attempts to evaluate (i.e. integer1 + 1) will fail because of the current limitation of the program.

Alias is just a name for the column, which could be useful for giving a meaningful name instead of a long mathematical expression to the column. Most characters should work here, but some characters are replaced by _ (underscore) so that the alias will not create a problem when creating a new root file from the data set.

columns.cfg can be created either manually or from the save button in the
Choose Column dialog. When such a file exists, it would be read; if not, the
default (all branches from branches.txt) will be used.