#summary The external libraries that this project depends on.
#labels Phase-Implementation,Phase-Requirements

==ROOT 5.18 ==

This project requires [http://root.cern.ch/ ROOT] compiled with QT3 support. Currently only *ROOT 5.18* is supported, as the older versions have bugs that prevent program from running properly, and the newer versions (>5.18) have dropped QT3 and support only QT4.

One can get the source and the compiled binaries (which has been compiled with QT3 support) [http://root.cern.ch/root/Version518.html here]. 


== QT ==

QT version >= 3.3 and < 4.0 is needed. A port to QT4 would be nice, but currently not considered because of time constraint of the original project. 

One can get QT3 from [http://trolltech.org/ TrollTech], but the runtime libraries should be included in most linux distributions. To compile Lopes-Eventbrowser, one will also need the development libraries of QT 3. 


== muParser ==

This is a mathematical library for parsing formulas, see http://muparser.sourceforge.net/. muParser is used extensively within the program to provide flexibility, and make graphing much more customizable and convenient. 

The muParser code version 1.30 is included in the source tree under [http://code.google.com/p/lopes-eventbrowser/source/browse#svn/trunk/muParserLib muParserLib], and it is compiled along with the rest of the program.

_A slight change is made to the original source code which on can get from its website: the default datatype is changed from double to float to better adapt to the normal usage of the event browser. One can locate the change in source file [http://code.google.com/p/lopes-eventbrowser/source/browse/trunk/muParserLib/muParserDef.h muParserDef.h] under the define MUP_BASETYPE._